Welcome to introduction
to Red Hat OpenShift.
After watching this video,
you will be able to explain what
OpenShift is and
list its features,
describe OpenShift
CLI, architecture,
and components, and compare
OpenShift with Kubernetes.
OpenShift, developed and
supported by Red Hat,
is an enterprise-ready
Kubernetes container platform
built for the hybrid
Cloud strategy.
It provides a consistent
application platform
to manage hybrid,
multi-Cloud, and
edge deployments.
It is built on the
technological foundation
of Linux, containers,
and automation.
It provides full stack
automated operations
and self-service provisioning
for developers to
efficiently move
ideas from development
to production.
Besides container
orchestration, it provides
additional tooling around
the complete life
cycle of applications.
From build, to CI/CD,
to monitoring, and logs.
Both Kubernetes and OpenShift
are container
orchestration platforms.
Kubernetes is a critical
component of OpenShift.
OpenShift is used as
an extension of
Kubernetes to provide
a more robust and
comprehensive platform
for containerized applications.
Let's review the
features of OpenShift.
Apps can scale to thousands of
instances across hundreds
of nodes in seconds.
Flexible hybrid
infrastructure options
simplify deployment
and management.
Open source standards use
Kubernetes and Open
Container Initiative,
OCI containers, which
means development is
familiar and containers are
portable across
multiple environments.
It includes a comprehensive
set of developer tools,
multi-language
support, command line,
IDE integrations, and more.
It supports over air
platform upgrades,
and services from the
operator hub can be
fully configured and deployed
with one click upgrades.
Container and app
builds, deployments,
scaling, and health management
are streamlined and automated.
OpenShift also
enhances support for
smaller footprint topologies in
edge scenarios for
better mapping,
connectivity, and availability.
It easily manages and
enforces policies across
multiple clusters at scale.
It offers access controls,
networking and
enterprise registry,
built in scanner, enhanced
threat detection,
life cycle vulnerability
management, and risk profiling.
OpenShift supports enterprise
persistent storage solutions
for running stateful
and stateless apps.
The OpenShift partner ecosystem
provides additional storage
and network services,
as well as IDE,
CI, integrations, and more.
Let's compare the main aspects
between OpenShift
and Kubernetes.
OpenShift is a product,
while Kubernetes is an
open source project.
Installation on OpenShift has
limited options after
the installation starts,
while Kubernetes is installable
on every Linux environment.
OpenShift is less flexible,
while Kubernetes
is more flexible.
OpenShift is available online
with Azure and dedicated,
while Kubernetes is
available on EKS,
on AWS, GKE, on GCP,
and AKS on Azure.
OpenShift image streams
provide better management,
while Kubernetes container
image management
is not that easy.
OpenShift has a very
strict security policy,
while Kubernetes security
maintenance is easy.
OpenShift router objects
permit external access,
while Kubernetes ingress objects
permit external access
to Kubernetes clusters.
OpenShift uses the less
flexible deployment
config command,
while Kubernetes uses more
flexible deployment objects.
OpenShift provides a
good user experience,
while Kubernetes
requires extra tools
for a better user experience.
OpenShift provides
good networking
solutions out of the box,
while Kubernetes provides
third party plugins
when network solutions
are unavailable.
OpenShift provides a
good service catalog,
while Kubernetes
offers less provision
for better services in clusters.
OpenShift has a user
friendly web console layout
that is easy to
learn for beginners,
while Kubernetes console layout
is difficult to
learn for beginners.
The OpenShift CI and CD
integrate with Jenkins,
while the Kubernetes CI
and CD can be integrated,
but not with Jenkins.
OpenShift runs on top of
a Kubernetes cluster,
with object data stored in
the etcd key-value store.
It has a microservices-based
architecture.
Its services are REST APIs,
which expose the core
objects, and controllers,
which read the REST APIs,
apply changes to
the other objects,
and report status or
write back to the object.
They also maintain the
cluster desired state.
Docker provides abstraction
for packaging and
creating Linux-based
lightweight container images.
Kubernetes provides
cluster management
and orchestrates containers
on multiple hosts.
OpenShift features add
management of source code,
builds, and deployments
for developers,
managing and promoting images
at scale as they flow
through your system,
application management at scale,
team and user
tracking management
of a large developer
organization,
and networking infrastructure
that supports the cluster.
In an OpenShift environment,
the Kubernetes master runs on
Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS,
while worker nodes support
Red Hat Enterprise Linux.
That is the Red Hat base layer.
Next is the Kubernetes
architecture
and a set of services.
Cluster services include
integrated monitoring,
a private registry
within the cluster,
networking solutions,
and many others.
Platform services help users
manage their workloads.
Application services help
users build Cloud native apps.
Developer services increase
developer productivity.
OpenShift offers a set of
command line interface or
CLI tools that
lets users perform
various admin and development
operations from the terminal.
OpenShift CLI or OC is
the most commonly used CLI tool
to perform end-to-end
operations.
It runs on Windows,
Linux, or Mac.
OC lets you work
directly with project source
code using command script,
script OpenShift operations,
and manage projects
during restricted bandwidth or
availability of the web console.
Since OpenShift runs on top
of a Kubernetes cluster,
a copy of kubectl is
also included with OC.
The OC and kubectl binary
offer the same capabilities,
but OC is further extended to
natively support
OpenShift features,
such as deployment configs,
build configs, routes,
image streams,
and image stream tags.
These are not available
in standard Kubernetes.
OC also offers
an inbuilt login command
for authentication.
Additional commands like new app
are also supported by OC,
which makes it easier
to get new applications
started using existing source
code or pre-built images.
In this video, you learn that
Kubernetes and OpenShift are
container orchestration
platforms,
OpenShift is an enterprise-ready
Kubernetes container platform
built for open hybrid Cloud,
OpenShift runs on a
Kubernetes cluster,
with object data stored in
the etcd key-value store,
and OpenShift is easier to use,
integrates with Jenkins,
and has more services
and features.